DX-233 feat: add widget customization (#690)
elevenlabs/elevenlabs-docs: fern/conversational-ai/pages/customization/widget.mdx

---
title: Widget customization
subtitle: Learn how to customize the widget appearance and behavior to match your brand.
---

**Widgets** enable instant integration of Conversational AI into any website. For advanced customization, use our type-safe [Conversational AI SDKs](/docs/conversational-ai/libraries) for complete control over styling and behavior.

<Note>
  Widgets currently require public agents with authentication disabled. Enable this in the

>   **Advanced** tab of your agent settings.

Reviewer: wouldn't this be "disable this in the advanced tab of your agent settings"

</Note>

## Embedding the widget

Add this code snippet to your website's `<body>` section. Place it in your main `index.html` file for site-wide availability:

<CodeBlocks>
  ```html title="Widget embed code"
  <elevenlabs-convai agent-id="<replace-with-your-agent-id>"></elevenlabs-convai>
  <script src="https://elevenlabs.io/convai-widget/index.js" async type="text/javascript"></script>
  ```
</CodeBlocks>

<Info>
  For enhanced security, define allowed domains in your agent's **Allowlist** (located in the
  **Security** tab). This restricts access to specified hosts only.
</Info>

## Visual customization

> Customize the widget's appearance, text content, language selection, and more in the [dashboard](https://elevenlabs.io/app/conversational-ai/dashboard) **Widget** tab.

Reviewer: wouldn't it make more sense to make this one of the tabs?

    - Add links to external policies
    - Format text with headers and lists
    - Include emphasis and styling

    For more help with Markdown, see the [CommonMark help guide](https://commonmark.org/help/).

    <Info>
      Once accepted, the status is stored locally and the user won't be prompted again on subsequent
      visits.
    </Info>

  </Tab>

<Tab title="Language">

Enable multi-language support in the widget.

![Widget language](/assets/images/conversational-ai/widget-language.png)

<Note>
  To enable language selection, you must first [add additional
  languages](/docs/conversational-ai/customization/language) to your agent.
</Note>

</Tab>

  <Tab title="Shareable page">
    Customize your public widget landing page (shareable link).

    <Frame background="subtle">
      ![Widget shareable page](/assets/images/conversational-ai/widget-shareable-page.png)
    </Frame>

    **Available options**

    - <strong>Description</strong>: Provide a short paragraph explaining the purpose of the call.

  </Tab>
</Tabs>

---

## Advanced implementation

<Note>
  For more advanced customization, you should use the type-safe [Conversational AI

>   SDKs](/docs/conversational-ai/libraries) with a framework like Next.js, React, or Python.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  SDKs](/docs/conversational-ai/libraries) with a Next.js, React, or Python application.
```

Python isn't a framework last I checked.

Author: Woops :)

</Note>

### Client tools

Once you define a [client tool](/docs/conversational-ai/customization/client-tools) in the dashboard, you can add event listeners to the widget. This allows the agent widget to perform actions such as:

- Redirecting the user to a specific page
- Sending an email to your support team
- Redirecting the user to an external URL

> You can find the code for the widget displayed at the bottom right of this page [here](https://github.com/elevenlabs/elevenlabs-docs/blob/main/fern/assets/scripts/widget.js) for reference.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can find an example of this tool running in the bottom right of this page. The [source is available on GitHub](https://github.com/elevenlabs/elevenlabs-docs/blob/main/fern/assets/scripts/widget.js) for reference.
```

<CodeBlocks>

> ```javascript title="Client tools (Plain javascript)"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```javascript title="index.js"
```

document.addEventListener('DOMContentLoaded', () => {
  const widget = document.querySelector('elevenlabs-convai');

  if (widget) {
    // Listen for the widget's "call" event to trigger client-side tools
    widget.addEventListener('elevenlabs-convai:call', (event) => {
      event.detail.config.clientTools = {

>         // Note: A client tool called "redirectToExternalURL" (case-sensitive) must be defined in the ElevenLabs dashboard.

Reviewer 2: Should we show how to do this?

Author: Good point fixed!
